{"id":"428835640537739_546671698754132","type":"status","created_time":"2013-09-28T13:11:47+0000","message":"Rafiqul Islam Khan urges government to stop conspiracies with garment industry; put stress on accepting just demand of the labors\n\nSecretary General of Bangladesh Jamaat-e-Islami Maulana Rafiqul Islam Khan has delivered a statement today (27th September, 2013) protesting the government conspiracy to destroy the garment industry along with a call to accept the just demand of the labors community. His statement is as follows:\n\nI am expressing my deep concern over the ongoing turmoil within the garments sector, the labor resentment and the casualties that have been created in line with the recent movement. The nation is also tensed as the RMG sector; the backbone of the national economy is facing severe chaos and uncertainty. 80 percent of the export revenue is coming from this sector. Millions of women are working in the garment factories. I am harshly protesting the local and international conspiracies that have been going on to demolish the RMG industry, the thrash sector of the country. Since the incumbent government came to the office, the garments industries have been facing severe crisis due to power and gas shortages. \n\nThe government\u2019s heinous role of abusing the labor sections for the sake of their own interest has caused a major reaction with the people of the country. The recent labor upsurge has been created following a statement of the Shipping Minister Shahjahan Khan that he had made in a labor conference. The situation has become so worse that the authority has become compelled to deploy BGB to main the law and order situation. I also condemn the police bullet fire and lobbing of tear shell upon the labor protesters and urged the authority to stop such oppressive actions.\n\nThe situation refers that, a opportunist section who are living on neighboring country\u2019s pity are mulling a conspiracy to destroy the garments sector in a bid to create a new market for the neighboring land. Bangladesh in recent times has lost the GSP facilities in the US market for such domestic and foreign conspiracies. The image and dignity of the Bangladesh garment sector has been foiled severely due to failure and inefficiency of the government. Over 2 thousand factories are yet to be closed as they failed to compete in the global market. Ongoing power and gas crisis has caused a major price hike of energy, Furness oil and diesel which ultimately reduced the production in the garment factories. Some 40 thousand factories have been closed in the past 4 years of this government. 3038 garment factories also have been closed within this time. According to a report of BGMEA, before this incumbent government came to the office, in 2008, the numbers of the garment factories were 5608 and now it has been reduced to 2570.\n\nShipping Minister\u2019s sudden emergence as a savior and his stunning statement to increase salaries and later his deviation has caused the recent unrest in the RMG sectors. Subsequently, the garments industry is going to face the same disastrous consequence like jute, which had been defined as the golden fiber of Bangladesh in once upon a time.\n\nIn this backdrop, I am calling upon the government to stop conspiracies with the potential garment industry and to accept the just demand of the labor community to dissolve the ongoing unrest."}