{"id":"428835640537739_429572257130744","type":"photo","created_time":"2013-03-08T18:54:54+0000","message":"Baitul Mukarram area of solicitation: alema - olamas country-wide demonstrations by the police to stop the alarm: one death from the roof: Monday demonstrations across the country\r\n\r\nWar preparation taken by the police to prevent large numbers of Baitul Mukarram area due to the protests of the Predicted Could Islamist groups. Futile defense of the faith and sane Holy Prophet (pbuh) assembly. Prayer for the common cold could musallis. Predicted Islamic parties protested the government's plan to stop a few days in the Baitul Mukarram National masajidasaha a continuation of the morning, go around to all areas of the strict position of the armored forces Low-descipline protecting thousands of members. On the movement of vehicles. Spread panic everywhere. Prayers in praise of the coming of the Islamic group's leaders were detained on suspicion of the leaders here. Baitul Mukarram uttarageta to the other suspects musallidera getagulote enter the body and byagapatra search. The young couple from the south gate of the police detained madrasa students. Derasatadhika musallike prayers before and after the area is captured. Dhaoyaya killed in a police musalli.\r\nOutside the capital, Chittagong, Sylhet, Khulna, Barisal, Rajshahi, arrest and punish the bad blood sahabagi bloggers and comprehensive allama Shop spontaneous demonstrations to demand the release of tauhidi devout people. The city andarakilla praise of Shahi Jame Mosque strip at the north gate of the assembly. Millions musallira occurs during the assembly. Atheist bloggers rally against baktara mahanabike abamananakari immediately demanded a strict action to move. Otherwise, all across the country and the capital gheraoyera announced they co.\r\nThe North hatahajari the headquarters in the heart of millions of people out of uddyege isalamera praise of demonstrations held in custody. The tauhidi mob 'Save the World Save the faith, ahmada saphi the instructions', 'hanging like hanging like, hanging like God', 'If anything our government, the fire was burning up', it makes the burdens of slogane the whole area.","picture":"https:\/\/fbcdn-photos-f-a.akamaihd.net\/hphotos-ak-ash3\/581909_429572237130746_122032647_s.jpg"}