{"id":"428835640537739_590966980991270","type":"photo","created_time":"2013-12-14T10:01:00+0000","message":"Deplorable task by a deplorable government\r\n\r\nPolitical enmity or political rivalry is a beauty of democracy. I may differ with your view but I will lay down myself to establish your view. This is the bottom-line of this doctrine. But Bangladesh is witnessing a reverse aspect in the name of democracy. The government here defines democracy as a theory of holding election after 5 years. Coming to the office following such an election, the government of Bangladesh usually thinks, we have people\u2019s mandate for next 5 years and we will do whatever we desire. This stubbornness of the ruling authority has put this nation at a brink.\r\n\r\nThe incumbent government came to the office following an election in 2008. Since the onset of their tenure, they started to demonize the dissidents in order to eliminate the opposition force forever. Considering the Islamic force as their biggest threat, they termed it as militant and carried propaganda that this force is destructive for the regional stability.\r\nAs a part of elimination, they detained top 10 leaders of Bangladesh Jamaat-e-Islami, the biggest Islamic political party of the country. This party had parliamentary representation for last 35 years. The party is the biggest ally of the opposition alliance.\r\nAwami League, the ruling authority accused the party and its leaders of committing crimes against humanity during the war of independence of this nation in 1971. They put its leaders into trial, the people who were merely student 42 years back.\r\n\r\nHolding a trial of mockery, full of loopholes and drawbacks, the authority awarded death penalty against Abdul Quader Molla, one of these Islamist leaders. Then the day came; the day of execution. People of all walks took to the street and demanded to halt the execution process. Seeking the legal benefit from the flawed trial process, they expected a review against the court\u2019s death penalty. Foreign quarters including UN, USA, UK, Turkey, Australia, China, Canada and human rights organizations like Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, prominent legal experts like Lord Carlile, Lord Avebury asked to halt the execution process. UN Human Rights Commission Navi Pillay also called for halting the execution. UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon and Secretary of State John Kerry phoned the Prime Minister of Bangladesh and urged her not to execute the political opponents.\r\n\r\nBut paying no heed to their view, the government executed the Islamist leader. Just hour before the execution, Abdul Quader Molla\u2019s family met him for the last occasion. Coming out from the jail, his elder son briefed the media and claimed his father seeks to remedy. His father wants to meet the lawyers and he wants jail code to be applied in his execution process. The lawyers also appealed seeking an appointment before the jail authority. But the denial of justice again. The ruling administration made an unprecedented hurry to execute Mr. Abdul Quader Molla on Thursday 10.01 at night, 2 hour before zero hour, the usual time of execution.\r\nDue to relentless propaganda of pro-government media, a portion of the nation became confused about the reported allegation of war crimes against this Islamic leader. But that confusion diminished totally and the government\u2019s vengeance has been exposed as the government made hurry in execution and showed their reluctance to provide minimum judicial privilege to Abdul Quader Molla.\r\nThen a chapter of further deprivation, severe cruelty had appeared. After the execution, the dead body was not handed over to his family. The jail management handed it over to district administration. Subsequently, the administration took the body into an ambulance and started journey towards the home district of the accused. Molla\u2019s family expected at least an occasion to see the face of their deceased father and to hold a funeral in the capital, where they usually reside. But the ruling authority played a rude tricky game with them. The family had no option but going to their home district as they came to know from TV news that the administration is taking the dead body towards the native district even without notifying them. But they faced a horrible experience while getting down to the ground floor of the building. The regime was so harsh to send hundreds of cadres in the nearest location of Molla\u2019s building. Coming over there, as per the direction of their high ups, amid the presence of the law enforcers, they started chaos and started to shout ill names against the deceased. They forced the family to return to their home. Suddenly police appeared in the scene as nothing had happened. They started charge baton indiscriminately upon the victim family and took 11 members in their custody. The aggrieved family became speechless watching such barbaric act of the law enforcers. They put into dilly dally what to do. Will they start for native district to attend funerals or go to the police station to pursue the release of the detainees. Situation became more complicated as the ruling party men continued to stay near the building.\r\n\r\nThe guardians of the family at one stage decided not to leave Dhaka amid such frightening situation. All the televisions and online media telecast the news of this sudden arrest. This injustice made the people understood how much suppressor this regime is..\r\n\r\nThis realization forced millions of people to take to the street on Friday, a day after execution. Though Molla was buried in his native district after a short funeral excluding his family men, but the countrymen took the revenge of this deprivation. They observed peaceful janaja (prayer in absentia) across the country seeking the salvation of the departed soul. Though the local administration tried to create bar in several places while holding this prayer, but the overflow of the people of all quarters foiled their attempts. Such a gathering is unprecedented in the context of Bangladesh. As if it was a reply of the people against the repression and torture of the government. The men who became a bit confused about the role of Abdul Quader Molla in 1971 war, even they threw a slap upon the government by taking part in these prayers spontaneously. The gathering of huge people proved the innocence of this Islamist leader. It substantiated the claim that people have started to reveal the real truth, started to realize the unseen injustice which had been carried out by this government. It is shame, how much inhuman a government can be just to attain its ill political interest!!! \r\n\r\nhttp:\/\/ireport.cnn.com\/docs\/DOC-1068203","picture":"https:\/\/fbcdn-photos-a-a.akamaihd.net\/hphotos-ak-ash3\/1469810_590966970991271_2109367123_s.jpg"}