{"id":"428835640537739_566232426798059","type":"status","created_time":"2013-11-02T07:00:28+0000","message":"Acting Secretary General urges countrymen to take part in demonstration against the government\u2019s continuous repression\n\n \n\nActing Secretary General of Bangladesh Jamaat-e-Islami, Maulana Rafiqul Islam Khan has issued a statement today (31st October, 2013) urging the countrymen to observe the pre-declared demonstration program of the 18 party alliances on 1st November and 2nd November nationwide. His statement is given below: \n\nThe incumbent tyrannical government has been continuing its repression, mass killing, arrest and torture against the opposition leaders and activists and imposing section 144 in different places of the country in a bid to execute their ill motivated conspiracy to hold an election of mockery. Rights to hold procession and rallies are the fundamental rights of the citizen. The government has seized those rights by obstructing processions. They are conducting ill efforts and repression against the 18 party activists to come back in power. But the people of the country will never let them to materialize this conspiracy. \n\nPeople of this country want to see a free, fair and credible election under caretaker government. They will resist any effort to hold a lopsided election. The government will never be able to hold a unilateral election as per their blue print design. \n\nThe government is continuing their suppression, arrest and torture against the leaders and activists of 18 party alliances and in different media houses including daily Sangram just to sustain their reign of terror. On last Wednesday, several activists of Jubo League, a wing of the ruling Awami League have vandalized 20\/25 vehicles chanting slogans for Jamaat in Shitakunda of Chittagong highway. At one stage, local people grabbed them and handed over to their guardians in exchange of some compensation. In guise of the opposition men, the ruling party cadres and Awami League, Jubo League and Chhatra League activists are attacking the house and offices of the prominent and civil society personnel. I am urging the government to stop the explosion of cocktail and crude bomb under the shelter of the police.  \n\nI am vehemently opposing the government attempt and conspiracy of arresting the renowned intellectual and philosopher Forhad Mozhar. The government became aggressive against him as he had raised his voice against the mass killing, torture and fascist activities of the government. The ruling regime has become hostile against him as he was vocal always for press freedom and individual\u2019s open access. The people will stand against any attempt of arresting this pro-people intellectual. There is no alternative but launching movement against this autocratic government. I am inviting the people to initiate mass upsurge against this government in order to oust them immediately.\n\nI am urging the government to restore the caretaker government system and to close the controversial tribunal to release the top Jamaat leaders and to step down immediately. I am also calling upon the countrymen to observe the pre-declared demonstration program of the 18 party alliances on 1st November and 2nd November nationwide."}