{"id":"428835640537739_593763287378306","type":"status","created_time":"2013-12-18T18:25:27+0000","message":"Indiscriminate killing by joint forces is in progress in Satkhira\n\nCallous firing, killing, rape, vandalism, arson, looting in the name of operation by joint forces; even no narrow escape for the journos- Chhatrashibir\n\nInhuman crackdown by joint forces on civilians has been going on in Satkhira for last three days. Wholesale arrest, looting and indiscriminate firing on the unarmed civilian people are the prime connotations of this joint operation which again and again reminds us of \u2018operation searchlight\u2019 launched on 25th March, 1971. 8 Jamaat-Shibir men have been killed in shoot-out by the joint forces over last two days. Of those killed, corpses of two have been found while the rest are denied to be handed over by the police.\n\nJoint forces personnel vandalized as well as torched at least 40 houses, many business enterprises and even the mosques, sacred places of Muslims, during the last 2-day operation. The situation sounds as if the joint forces waged war against the very countrymen. Even the journalists are being troubled in many ways while collecting news and snapping photos.\n\nAfter 2 days\u2019 attack on last 15 and 16 December, members of the joint forces vandalized 5 houses, especially the house of Union Jamaat Chief (Ameer) Moulana Abdus Sattar, again on 17 December in Kaligonj. They also wreaked severe havoc at around 1:15 pm in Debhata area when locals tried to escape from joint forces\u2019 attacks by erecting a barricade. Later at 3:00 pm, they carried out heavily mischievous actions in Agordari village vandalizing various houses and business institutions. At that time, some pro-government party men set some houses on fire. At around 5:00 pm, 17 cars full of BGB members headed by the Upozila Awami League President Ohed and accompanied by Chhatra League goons entered into Choumuhoni area of Kaligonj and vandalized Shibir\u2019s upozila office and also the house of the Principal of Choumuhoni Madrasah. After the evening, 60 more cars full of RAB and Police personnel joined in and heavily vandalized houses and business institutions of the Jamaat leaders. Later on, they disseminated themselves in Krisnopur and Krisnonagar Union Parishads in dead of night and went on with vandalism.\n\nJoint force members launched operation in the house of Principal Abdul Khalek, District Chief of Jamaat-e-Islami and former Member of Parliament, in Khalilnagar at 5:00 pm. They tried to destroy his two-storied house with bulldozers and, as a result, the building leaned in one direction.\n\nPrior to this mischief, Joint forces personnel looted over a lakh taka with much more gold breaking into the house vandalizing the side wall. At the same time, the house of Moulana Rafiqul Islam was also set on fire.\n\nOn last 15 December at 8:00 pm, 16 cars full of joint forces members entered into Agordari and Kodomtola areas of Satkhira and at that time they indiscriminately opened fire. Awami League men backed by cops torched houses of Jamaat-Shibir leaders. Over 20 houses were set on fire on 15 December. On last 16 December at 8:30 pm, about 20 houses were set ablaze. As a result, the whole of Satkhira has turned into a place of great human disaster.\n\nPreviously, last night, joint forces together with pro-government leaders vandalized a mosque and looted belongings thereof at Khanpur area in Shyamnagar.\n\nSuch maltreatment of joint forces in the month of national victory only connotes Israeli barbarism."}