{"id":"428835640537739_495351833886119","type":"status","created_time":"2013-06-29T19:49:38+0000","message":"Heart-touching Stories about abduction in Bangladesh\n\nBangladesh, undergoing the last year of the tenure of current Awami League regime is somehow succumbed into a situation with overwhelming lack of political tolerance, absence of necessary and effective institutions to ensure a democratic polity and blatant violations of human rights. Those still remain the biggest hurdles for democracy in Bangladesh. The present reality of Bangladesh demonstrates that the need for a representative government essential for democratic practice is not enough if the Executive, Judiciary and the Legislative fail to play their respective roles to ensure constitutional and international norms of human rights. In such a situation, undemocratic and dictatorial nature of power manifests in many different ways and abuses the state machinery for partisan and narrow political gain. Continuous events of forced disappearances of high profile leaders of BNP Ilias Ali and Chowdhury Alam and hundreds more have shaken the base of democracy and justice. Lastly, four members of Bangladesh Islami Chhatrashibir were abducted by security forces and there is still no clue to trace where they really are right now. This reflects the current scenario of the dirty socio-political environment of Bangladesh, especially for the opposition-minded people and groups.\nBangladesh Islami Chhatra Shibir is the largest student outfit in Bangladesh and it comprises of about five million students. Since its establishment in 1977, Shibir is relentlessly working for creating honest, skilled and patriotic citizenry for a prosperous Bangladesh. It has already presented a band of youths who never smoke, take drugs or indulge in filthy activities like Eve-teasing. But the current anti-Islamic regime of Awami League has unleashed inhuman and undemocratic rage upon us; all of our offices throughout the whole country are closed for last Four years. Shibir is currently not allowed to perform any peaceful program anywhere in the country. Even Policemen intercepts the indoor programs, arrests innocent activists frequently and colors those peaceful meetings as sabotage and secret meetings. They take out Quran, Hadith and Islamic literature and labeled them as \u201cJihadi\u201d books! Our senior leaders are arrested and detained behind bars for last three years for some false and fictitious cases. Now if we try to protest against such inhuman and undemocratic activities, they offer us live bullets and mass arrests. So far, more than 200 people including many Shibir leaders and activists had died in the hands of cops as a result of indiscriminate fire. More than hundreds became crippled for life as Police shot them directly in legs, hands and even in eyes. More than thousands are wounded due to live bullets, shotgun shrapnel and rubber bullets of Police. Those injured don\u2019t even get proper treatment in hospitals as policemen frequently arrest Shibir activists abed in hospitals. Mass arrests in Educational institutions, homes, mosques and even in streets have taken more than 36,000 people inside the prisons so far. So far, four Shibir leaders had been abducted by Police and Intelligence branch and nobody found their traces in last 2 years."}