{"id":"428835640537739_551526294935339","type":"status","created_time":"2013-10-08T03:18:16+0000","message":"To,\nNobel Prize Nomination Committee,\nNobel Foundation, \nOslo, Norway\n\nSubject: Petition for a Nobel Prize for Sheikh Hasina, the Prime Minister of Bangladesh \n\nDear Sir\/ Madam,\nWithout much ado, we would like to go straight to the point. We plead with you; hold your feet; implore you; please save the 160 million people of Bangladesh; please give Sheikh Hasina her coveted Nobel Prize. In the aftermath of her menopause, she has turned into an evil hag, her sole intent being garnering the Nobel Prize. Nothing has stood the craziness of her antics as her cracked mindset continues to wreak upon us unimaginable sorrow. The nuttiness of her rage has been inflicted in full measure upon the first thing that comes across her every day, the people of the nation. Her anger at being denied a Nobel Prize for so long has made her the goddess Kali to the people, when they voted for a benevolently masked Goddess Durga before the elections. We warn you, if you do not grant her a Nobel Prize, her whining will not end with her death. She will come back as a poltergeist to haunt the Nobel Foundation with her sickening cacophony. \n\nWorld Beggars Federation and Country Best Fakir award holder, the pride of Bangladesh and also the Chairman of World Philosophical Organisation, Tariqat Ali has fully supported this petition, mentioning his awe at the decisiveness with which her Excellency Hasina managed to size up the fundamentally terrorist nation within one night on the 5th of May a few days back. In his almost feverish fervor, he salivated constantly as he rooted for her candidacy in every field of the Nobel Prize starting from literature to science to world peace. We, the hapless citizens of this country, beseech you to take into consideration the looming humanitarian crisis in the region before you even dare to think of another name for that Nobel Prize. Think for humanity. Give Sheikh Hasina a Nobel Prize. \n\nYours imploringly, \nWretched people of a pathetic nation,\n(Save Us)"}