{"id":"428835640537739_430044407083529","type":"status","created_time":"2013-03-09T15:12:55+0000","message":"Bangladesh Islami Chhatrashibir has published a severe condemnation and gainsaying statement in their official face book fan page about a CNN iReport published about the petition................. The statement is as below:\n\nA propaganda of a team to defame the petition to Obama against injustice in Bangladesh.\nThe article posted in CNN iReport about the petition to Obama government to Express concern against the International War Crime Tribunal and Mob Justice in Bangladesh caught our attention. That is a well planned and organized article by a strong team against the truth and reality. They wanted to tell that they analyzed online activities of Jamaat and Shibir and pointed out some issues that indicate some signatures for the petition are given by using fake email addresses. We found, they intentionally created a reference website or used someone and prepared some calculations to establish logic against the petition.\nFirst of all, we need to know that the petition is not created by Jamaat-e-Islami or Shibir. It is created by someone who loves Bangladesh and opposes the toxic claw and injustice of incumbent government. It doesn\u2019t mean creation of Jamaat If anyone\u2019s thinking goes with Jamaat\u2019s opinion. I also request the research team to research neutrally about the petition\u2019s theme.\nSecondly, Jamaat and Shibir do not allow any unethical propaganda to establish any ethical point. We did not advertise, tell or provoke any person to sign for the petition by using any fake ID.\nThirdly, Jamaat and Shibir have own official websites, fan pages and huge other networks. That is not an authorized website and we are not so ill-fated that we have to use a free webpage to make publicity like this.\nHow your common sense say, this type of website can help making 100000 signatures. You also need to calculate the number of visitors of the website.\nYour second image (bar chart) shows the number of signatures jumped on 6th march when the fake system published on the website. Your chart shows the number of signatures were more on 5th march, why is it? And how is it possible to reach the post of the website to huge people at the same day that increased huge number of signatures? Is it believable?\nYour another issue is A.A. from port Arthur. According to your calculation, 473 signatures came from Port Arthur while the petition needs 100000 signatures. We have to find out whether all A.A. are one person or not! and it may also a ill effort to establish your logic and defame the petition.\nI request all to analyze the real situation and oppose the injustice, murder and judicial killing in Bangladesh and not to make any intensive propaganda against the truth and demand of oppressed people of our beloved country. We work for the people to establish the truth and justice and make a peaceful and vigorous nation. We call you to do so. Please correct us if find any mistake, we will appreciate you. But please do not make any unethical and illegal propaganda against us.\nMuhsinul Kabir\nSecretary\nDepartment of International Affairs\nBangladesh Islami Chhatrashibir\nwww.shibir.org.bd\n\n(source: http:\/\/www.facebook.com\/bangladeshislamichhatrashibir\nDate: 09.03.2013)"}